README.md, before:

# Adler automated integration and end-to-end tests

## Setup
> [!NOTE]
> While manual test execution is supported on Windows, this project aims only on Linux support. On Windows you can use WSL.

- Required tools: Docker, Node, NPM
- For every testsuite (subfolders in project root) run `npm install`
- Execute tests with `npm test`

## Playwright commands
- Record Browser actions: `npx playwright codegen <optional: url>`

## Docker
To simplify mainting the docker-compose.yml files we use this project uses the following files:
- docker-compose.base.yml: This is currently the file used in the AdlerDevelopmentEnvironment project.
- docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml: This file contains all modifications needed for the test environment.

Use the following commands to start/stop/pull the docker containers:
- start: `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml up -d`
- stop: `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml down`
- pull: `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml pull`

You can generate the combined docker-compose.yml file with the following command:
> [!WARNING]
> You have to manually update the docker-compose.yml after every pull or change to the source files.
- `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml config > docker-compose.yml`

## Engine & WebGl
Since the so called "AdLer-Engeine" uses WebGl to render the 3D models, it is important to set the '--enable-gpu' flag when launching chrome. Other webdrivers rremain to be tested.

Commit message:

add shared code to enrol user in world

README.md, after:

# Adler automated integration and end-to-end tests

## Setup
> [!NOTE]
> While manual test execution is supported on Windows, this project aims only on Linux support. On Windows you can use WSL.

- Required tools: Docker, Node, NPM
- For every testsuite (subfolders in project root) run `npm install`
- Execute tests with `npm test`

## IDE setup
### Visual Studio Code
The plugin "Playwright Test for VSC" can be used to run tests directly from the IDE. It might be necessary to manually activate all testsuites in the plugin settings.

Test-Symbol in left sidebar -> Playwright -> Configs -> Settings wheel -> select projects -> OK

> [!WARNING]
> When running tests with this plugin it loads all active projects for no reason. If something (like a a dependency issue) in another project is broken, there will be errors in the output. Workaround: Deactivate all projects except the one you want to test.

## Playwright commands
- Record Browser actions: `npx playwright codegen <optional: url>`

## Docker
To simplify mainting the docker-compose.yml files we use this project uses the following files:
- docker-compose.base.yml: This is currently the file used in the AdlerDevelopmentEnvironment project.
- docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml: This file contains all modifications needed for the test environment.

Use the following commands to start/stop/pull the docker containers:
- start: `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml up -d`
- stop: `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml down`
- pull: `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml pull`

You can generate the combined docker-compose.yml file with the following command:
> [!WARNING]
> You have to manually update the docker-compose.yml after every pull or change to the source files.
- `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.test-adjustments.yml config > docker-compose.yml`

## Engine & WebGl
Since the so called "AdLer-Engeine" uses WebGl to render the 3D models, it is important to set the '--enable-gpu' flag when launching chrome. Other webdrivers remain to be tested.
